## Frequently Asked Questions

### What is the price of translation project?

The price of translation mainly depends on the length of the text, or
the number of characters, and the languages. The length of a standard
page is considered to equal 1800 characters, including spaces. The
number of characters can be determined in Microsoft Word or in our
price calculator where you also specify the source and target
languages. At the same time, you must not forget that the price
calculator does not provide the final quotation. The complexity of
specific terminology may likewise increase translation
price. Proofreading and final review by project manager are included
in the price offer. Sometimes a target-language summary is required
from a foreign language text, the price is which is naturally
lower. The safest way to know the exact price is to ask for an offer.

### Which additional costs may accompany the price of translation?

Price of translation may also be accompanied by the fees of other
services you consider necessary. Each translation price already
includes proofreading and final review services; editing may require
an additional fee. Furthermore, sometimes it may be necessary to type
a written text into computer, style it, scan pictures and add these to
the text or other layout work, etc. Also, compilation of a terminology
database for a client, which could be used for the following
translations, may be considered as a separate service. If necessary,
the database could be complemented with new terms arising from new
translations, and client can also use this database for drawing up
original documents or for preparing other prints.

### How to get notarial certification? Why is it necessary?

A document translation has to be notarised if you need to prove its
authenticity in a foreign country. In addition to notarial
certification, the document may often have to be verified with an
apostil or otherwise legalised; wherefore, you should check with the
appropriate authority beforehand as to the requirements that apply to
your documents. Scriba is ready to help you with notarisation using
the services of a notary or a sworn translator. At a notary’s office
this procedure usually takes more time and does not involve the
verification of translation, only the translator’s signature is
certified. Sworn translators have passed the exam under the authority
of the Ministry of Justice and their competence has therefore been
officially certified. Thus, a sworn translator is also responsible for
the authenticity of the content of translation and bears the right to
notarise the document.

### Why is apostilling necessary?

Apostilling is necessary if you are required to prove the authenticity
of a document issued in Estonia in a foreign state. Only official
documents are verified with an apostil, for example, documents issued
by a notary or sworn translator. Private documents so not require such
certification. Apostilling is provided at the Ministry of Justice,
Ministry of Education and Research, Ministry of the Interior, Ministry
of Social Affairs and Ministry of Foreign Affairs. One should also
note that documents verified with an apostil are only valid in those
countries that have adopted the Hague Apostille Convention. If a
document is to be used in a country that is not party to the Apostille
Convention, the document is subject to a legalisation process, during
which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs certifies the authenticity of
the document and the same must be done at an equivalent institution of
the foreign state.

### Why is localisation necessary?

Localisation, i.e. the adaptation of translation text taking into
account the cultural context, is necessary if the translation of text
is accompanied by styling and layout work. This certainly does not
apply to all text types, and the use of localisation has become more
frequent in the recent years. Initially, it came about from the
translation of homepages, where apart from the text, layout, pictorial
and illustrative changes may also be appropriate. Furthermore,
localisation also concerns user manuals, software, business cards and
the like, which include material that is presented or formalised
differently in different cultures. This includes the conventions
regarding presentation of dates, units of measurement (pounds or
kilograms), customs of webpage design, information presentation order,
etc.
