## Interpretation

**Oral translation** is included in the services of almost every
translation agency. Interpretation is required at conferences,
meetings and in any event involving people that speak different
languages. Interpretation is often put in the context of conference
interpreting as it is most often used at conferences. It must be
remembered that **oral translation is provided by an interpreter and
written translation by a translator.**

When ordering interpretation services one must always take into
account that for a successful performance at least a three-week prior
notice, preferably even a month's advance notice, of the event is
required. Client should be as dutiful as possible in ensuring that the
authors of presentations would send their reports by a given deadline
and provide interpreters with necessary materials at least five days
before the event is due. In case of easier speeches or texts,
two-three days will also be sufficient. In that way the interpreter
can ensure best results, for there is enough time to go through the
subject of presentations, the terms used, the speaker's language use
and other relevant details. With the lack of presentation related
information provided in advance, interpreters may ask a higher price
for the simultaneous interpretation.

### Types of interpretation

#### Consecutive interpreting

Speaker's text is interpreted usually by time slots of 5 to 15
minutes, depending on the difficulty of the text, interpreting by
shorter phases is also called parroting. Consecutive interpretation
requires no special equipment; interpreters use their notes taken
during the speech.

#### Simultaneous interpreting

Interpretation is performed at interpreter's booth simultaneously with
the speaker's presentation and the text in the target language reaches
the listeners through special headphones. There are normally at least
two interpreters in the interpreter’s booth since one interpreter
cannot interpret for more than half an hour on a continuous basis.

#### Whispered interpreting

Similar to simultaneous interpretation in that the interpretation
takes place simultaneously with the speaking, but is characterised by
no requirement of special equipment and the interpretation is
whispered to only a few people.

#### Written text interpreting

In this case not spoken text is interpreted, instead, the
source-language text is read from sheet and interpretation is given
orally.

#### Sign language interpreting

As the name says the text is either interpreted into or from sign
language in order to ensure the linguistic equality of all parties
involved. In Estonia, this type of interpreting is provided by
Estonian Association of Sign Language Interpreters.

### Ordering interpretation

Interpretation often refers to A, B and C language, the first of which
is the mother tongue of interpreter, from and into which he or she
interprets. B language is an active foreign language that interpreter
commands at a very good level and into and from which he/she can
interpret. C language is a passive foreign language from which
interpreter interprets only into his/her native language and not vice
versa. Interpreter usually (also translator) has one B language and
one or two C languages. The European Union permits, for example, only
one B language.

The most common types of interpreting are simultaneous, consecutive
and whispered interpreting. There is also conference interpreting,
which usually entails simultaneous interpreting and may in turn be
court interpreting, media interpreting, public sector interpreting and
EU interpreting. One interesting type is also relay interpreting which
is performed via an intermediate or pivot language understood by every
interpreter concerned.

Good interpreters are people who have an open mind and no fear of
standing and talking in front of a large crowd of people. Interpreters
should also be relatively modest, for they must not outshine the
public speaker. Furthermore, an interpreter has to leave his/her own
principles and notions aside and deliver the thoughts of a speaker as
if they were the interpreter’s own, otherwise the listeners will
receive a modified message. Apart from that, simultaneous interpreting
particularly requires good concentration and high stress tolerance.

### Differences between written and oral translation

Even though both deal with putting texts into a different language,
written translation and interpretation differ in various aspects. The
most evident differences among others are:

#### Recorded or not

Interpreter interprets once and nobody will hear, read or analyse it
again. Written translation, however, is recorded, it can be repeatedly
read, amended, analysed, retranslated, etc.

#### Tools

Interpreter’s tools are mainly the source text and his or her own
knowledge, while it is also important to guess what the speaker might
say next. Translator, however, can use various dictionaries, other
texts on the same subject and also expert advice and instructions. As
the time for contemplation is very scarce in the case of simultaneous
interpreting, interpreters may fall into difficulties when trying to
convey e.g. jokes or idioms, as the detection of equivalents may
require more time that is available in the interpretation process.

#### Time for contemplation

Simultaneous and whispered interpreting leaves minimum time to think,
one must react immediately when the speaker has begun a
sentence. Consecutive interpreting offers a bit more time, for
interpreting is slightly delayed. Written translation provides as much
time as stipulated by the deadline, and, as a rule, translator has
time to go over the translation.

#### Team work

This only applies to simultaneous interpretation where each booth has
two or three interpreters that help each other if
necessary. Translators, however, mostly work alone, although they may
consult with specialists, etc.

#### Client feedback

In case of interpretation client is present and able to comment after
interpretation on the merits and drawbacks of specific
interpretation. In the case of translation the feedback does not occur
immediately, and it may happen that client gives no feedback at all.

### Interpretation in the european union

There are more interpreters working in the EU than in any other
international organisation As the Union has 27 Member States and 23
official languages, and it is provided by law that all members bear
the right to use their native language, interpreters (and translators)
have their hands full of work. 350 EU interpreters have an official
status, and additionally there are 2500 interpreters or assistant
conference interpreters in reserve.

The institutions that have their own interpretation service are
European Parliament, European Commission and European Court of
Justice. Interpreters are most abundant at parliamentary plenary
meetings where 800-1000 interpreters are used. Interpreters are also
required at all kinds of other meetings (e.g. faction board meeting,
meetings of delegations), press conferences and in foreign missions.

### Price of interpretation

**Starting from 700 EEK per hour.**

Interpretation is priced by the hour. The hourly rate may at first
seem rather high, but one must not forget that interpretation is
preceded by thorough preparation, during which interpreter learns
about the subject of the event, related presentations and terminology
thereof. Price of interpreting may also involve additional
transportation costs if interpreter needs to go to another city, as
well as the cost of transport and leasing of interpreting equipment
(in case of need for simultaneous interpreting).
